learn: add learning resources (#41)
botlabs-gg/yagpdb-docs-v2: content/learn/intermediate/data-types-2.md

**dict**ionary), whereas a dict supports all [comparable data types][key-types].

[key-types]: https://go.dev/blog/maps#key-types

To create a map, provide a sequence of key-value pairs to the `sdict` or the `dict` function as appropriate:

```go
{{ $fruitPrices := sdict "pineapple" 3.50 "apple" 1.50 "banana" 2.60 }}

{{/* For readability, it's common to put each key/value pair on a new line. */}}
{{ $userReputation := dict
    935212563644420158 3
    204255221017214977 5
}}

{{/* Pass no arguments for an empty map. */}}
{{ $empty := sdict }}
```

For available operations on maps, please refer to [our template documentation][docs-maps].

[docs-maps]: /docs/reference/templates/syntax-and-data/#templatessdict

{{< callout context="tip" title="Here be Dragons" icon="outline/rocket" >}}

Consider the following code that displays the value of `$fruitPrices` as defined in the previous example:

```go
{{ $fruitPrices := sdict "pineapple" 3.50 "apple" 1.50 "banana" 2.60 }}
{{ $fruitPrices }}
```

yielding

```txt
map[apple:1.5 banana:2.6 pineapple:3.5]
```

Though the output is ordered by key, this feature is only implemented for ease for debugging: maps are otherwise

> unordered data structures. If your program relies on the entries of a map being ordered, consider use a slice of
> key-value pairs instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unordered data structures. If your program relies on the entries of a map being ordered, consider use a slice of
maps instead.
```

Reviewer 2: Slice of key-value pairs is intentional, though it could be clarified. (Tangential, but now that I read this sentence again, `consider use` is not quite right. Whoops.)

Reviewer: I read "a slice of key-value pairs" as something like `cslice "key" "value"`, maybe this is just me from trying to understand people in support channels though :)

Reviewer 2: Hmm. I see how "slice of key-value pairs" could be confusing in the context of custom commands where "key-value pairs" is overloaded, but it's fairly common terminology otherwise. I don't particularly like "slice of maps" though... maybe "slice of entries" would be better? Alternately, we could leave it at "use a slice instead".

+++
title = "Data Types 2"
weight = 320
+++

When you first started this course, you learned about [primitive data types](/learn/beginner/datatypes-1). In the
previous chapter we name-dropped two more types: "slice", and "sdict" ("map"), both without much elaboration.
In this chapter, we will explore these data types in more detail.

## Slices

Think of a slice as a list of items, that you can add to or remove from. You might have already heard of an array, which
is a fixed-size list of items. A slice is like an array, but it can grow or shrink in size. This makes slices more

> powerful than a simple array.

Reviewer 2: Custom commands do not work with arrays much so while the explanation of a slice as a dynamic array is accurate, I don't know if it's particularly helpful. What about just:

"A slice is an ordered list of items that you can add to or remove from."

> In custom commands, we can **c**reate a **slice** with the `cslice` function, like so:

Reviewer 2: we can create a slice by providing the elements in order to the `cslice` function

```go
{{ $mySlice := cslice 1 2 3 "hello" 4 5 "good bye" }}
```

> As you can see, the data types of the elements in a slice need not be equal, they can be anything. You already

Reviewer 2: As you can see, the data types of the elements in a slice need not be the same: in the above example, we freely mixed integers and strings. Besides primitives, slices can also contain more complex data types: you already subconsciously ...

subconsciously used a slice with dictionaries as elements, when you created the `"fields"` slice for an embed in the
previous chapter.

For available operations on slices, please refer to [our template documentation][docs-slices].

[docs-slices]: /docs/reference/templates/syntax-and-data/#templatesslice

## Maps

> A map is an unordered collection of key-value pairs for fast lookups. In custom commands, we have two kinds of maps:

Reviewer 2: A map is an table that associates values with keys. For example, a program that implements a reputation system might use a map from user IDs to reputation points internally. In custom commands, we have two kinds of maps:

`sdict` and `dict`. The difference between the two is that `sdict` only supports string keys, while `dict` supports any
[comparable data type][key-types].

We can create a map with either the `sdict` or `dict` function, like so:

[key-types]: https://go.dev/blog/maps#key-types

```go
{{ $myStringMap := sdict "key1" "value1" "key2" "value2" }}
{{ $myMap := dict 1 "value1" 2 "value2" }}
```

For available operations on maps, please refer to [our template documentation][docs-maps].

[docs-maps]: /docs/reference/templates/syntax-and-data/#templatessdict

{{< callout context="tip" title="Here be Dragons" icon="outline/rocket" >}}

Consider the following code:

```go

> {{ $some_map := sdict "key3" "value3" "key1" "value1" "key4" "value4" "key2" "value2" }}

Reviewer 2: someMap

{{ $some_map }}

```

Yielding this output:

```txt
map[key1:value1 key2:value2 key3:value3 key4:value4]
```

Whilst its output may suggest that `$some_map` ends up ordered by key, this is not actually the case. This behavior is
implemented for convenient debugging, but is in no way representative of the actual layout in memory.
Maps are, by definition, unordered. If you expect your map to be ordered in some way, or attempt to sort it, you are

> almost always using the wrong data structure and should consider using a slice instead.

Reviewer 2: Though the output is ordered by key, this feature is only implemented for debugging convenience; maps are otherwise unordered data structures. If you rely on the order of the entries in a map, consider using a slice of key-value pairs instead.
